Mas vamos lá, eu queria trazer esse vídeo do Neil deGrasse, é um dos cientistas mais respeitados do mundo, ele é pupilo do Carl Sagan, que escreveu aquele seriado Cosmos, que explica o funcionamento do universo, muito bom inclusive, quem não viu, veja se você gosta de física, de astronomia e etc.
E o Carl Sagan faz uma reflexão sobre a questão de aprendizado muito interessante,
com um olhar também físico sobre o sistema. How do I create meaning in my life as I go forward? My first question of me wasn't, where do I find meaning?
It was, how do I create meaning?
And that started early, early teens.
Did you help your kids with this?
Is that something that you found a way to sort of educate on or pass down
so that they would be asking a similar question
instead of doing this sort of wander search thing?
Yeah, I have an unorthodox approach to what we did with our kids.
We discussed this, my wife and I,
and I wanted to make sure that,
however they were raised,
that they retained the curiosity of childhood
into adulthood.
Okay?
Let's say there's a little toddler walking here, okay?
Crawling on the ground, it comes up,
and they start grabbing this.
What's the first thing?
No, don't touch that! Okay. This was an experiment waiting to happen that you just
squashed. This is a cup. It has water in it. Okay. This is breakable. The kid doesn't know that.
They want to experiment. So they'll grab it. It'll fall. It'll break. Water will spill all over.
That was an experiment you just prevented. They are experimenting with their environment.
Everything is new to them.
I saw a woman walking with her kid.
The kid has galoshes on and a raincoat on,
and they're coming down the walkway.
And there's this big, juicy, muddy puddle right there.
And I said, please let the kid jump in the puddle.
You know the kid wants to jump in the puddle. You know th
in the puddle. The kid is
You know the kid and what
do? She pulls the kid aro
from happening. That's an
That's what craters happe
splash the water, there's
You get to see the cause and effect of a force,
downward force operating on a fluid.
Gone.
That was a bit of curiosity in that moment that was extinguished.
So with our kids, curiosity provided it does not kill them,
if it meant we had extra work in front of us,
I would do that extra
work.
And I have pretty high confidence that they'll retain that curiosity through the turbulent
middle school years into high school.
And what is an adult scientist but a kid who's never lost the curiosity.
We live in a very fractured world today, but what is clear is that the internet and social media have enabled people to tribalize.
You might go your whole life without ever finding another person who thinks the earth is flat.
You go online and you see them all, and they have conventions, and they meet here, even if it's only virtual. E aí, o Neil deGrasse fecha pra gente com esse fechamento muito bonito, né? Sobre o aprendizado.